docs: release notes for 1.12 (#891)
canonical/rockcraft: docs/release-notes/rockcraft-1-12.rst

Author: https://canonical-ubuntu-documentation-library--891.com.readthedocs.build/rockcraft/en/891/release-notes/rockcraft-1-12/#release-1-12

  processor
- 2GB RAM
- 10GB available storage space
- Internet access for remote software sources and the Snap Store

Platform requirements
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. list-table::
  :header-rows: 1
  :widths: 1 3 3

  * - Platform
    - Version
    - Software requirements
  * - GNU/Linux
    - Popular distributions that ship with systemd and are `compatible with
      snapd <https://snapcraft.io/docs/installing-snapd>`_
    - systemd

What's new
----------

Rockcraft 1.12 brings the following features, integrations, and improvements.

Spring Boot extension
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The new Spring Boot extension streamlines the process of building rocks that bundle
Spring Boot projects, using either Maven or Gradle as the build tool.

This new extension is experimental and subject to change. For more information, check
out the Spring Boot :ref:`tutorial <build-a-rock-for-a-spring-boot-application>` and
:ref:`reference <spring-boot-framework-reference>`.

Minor features
--------------

Rockcraft 1.12 brings the following minor changes.

Support for non-root rocks in 12-factor extensions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> The extensions supporting the :ref:`12-factor app <set-up-web-app-rock>` methodology can
> now be used with the non-root :ref:`_daemon_ <rockcraft_yaml_run_user>` user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can now use the non-root :ref:`_daemon_ user <rockcraft_yaml_run_user>` with
extensions that support the :ref:`12-factor web app <set-up-web-app-rock>` methodology.
```

> How-tos for 12-factor app rocks
> ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
> 
> The documentation now has a dedicated :ref:`page <manage-12-factor-app-rock>` for guides
> on setting up and using rocks that leverage Rockcraft's 12-factor app extensions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
12-factor web app documentation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

We added two new how-to guides that cover rocks for 12-factor web apps:

- :ref:`set-up-web-app-rock`
- :ref:`use-web-app-rock`
```

``mediaType`` field in the OCI manifest
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Rockcraft now sets the ``mediaType`` field in the image manifest of the generated rocks.

> This improves the compatibility with tools that rely on this field for manifest type
> detection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This improves compatibility with tools that rely on this field for manifest type
detection.
```

> detection.

Reviewer: - Can we be more specific and punchy than "improves compatibility"?
- "for manifest type detection" might be too terse. How about "to determine whether the manifest is for an OCI image"? I specify this because the OCI spec says:
    > this field MUST contain the media type `application/vnd.oci.image.manifest.v1+json`.

    It sounds like it's a binary distinction.

Author: I took a pass at it calling out the specific tool (rules_oci). Please take a look

Reviewer: Looks great!

Improved ``test`` command
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The ``CRAFT_ARTIFACT`` environment variable can now be used in tests and contains the
full path to the rock file being tested. Additionally, the user experience of the

> ``test`` command has been cleaned up and improved.

Reviewer: > Additionally, the user experience of the ``test`` command has been cleaned up and improved.

I suggest putting this on a separate line. Is the improvement significant enough that we could describe it?

Author: Added the separate line; the improvements are a series of papercut fixes that I don't think merit much elaboration, specially as this command is still experimental and evolving.
